
This module is built and installed using the standard GNU build
process.  It depends on the GNU build tools, PAM, openssl, and the
Boost STL library.

From the command-line:

$ ./configure
$ make
$ sudo make install

You then need to configure your PAM stack to use the HOTP module for
authorization.  In the /etc/pam.d/ directory you will find a list of
programs which use PAM.  If, for instance, you would like to use this
in conjunction with SSH, you'd edit the file /etc/pam.d/sshd -- which
should already exist.  Just above the line:

@include common-auth

...you would add the line:

auth       sufficient   pam_hotp.so

This means that when sshd calls out to the PAM stack for
authorization, the hotp module will be used before the standard
password-based authorization module.  Here we have listed it as
"sufficient," which means that should the authorization succeed it
will be considered successful, but if it fails it will continue on
with the rest of the PAM stack to try and find a success.  This means
that at any time you can use a OTP credential or your password.

Once you have PAM configured, you need to setup the HOTP credentials
for the users you would like to make it available for.  The program
"hotpadd" should have been installed into /usr/local/bin/ and should
be run as such:

$ sudo hotpadd <username> <pin>

...where username is the name of the user that you want to have HOTP
access, and pin is an arbitrary-length pin number for that user's
credentials.  hotpadd should then print a result like:

$ sudo hotpadd someUser 1234
Added someUser with key:
94102985ae8690d28348702459ef4057
$

The key printed here needs to be installed on the user's device.  The
best way to do it is to read it off the screen here and type it in
directly when the Android-based client software prompts you for it.
This is the only time that you'll have to enter the key.  After that,
you'll just need to enter the PIN each time you want an OTP.

At this point, you should be ready to go.

Send questions, comments, concerns, suggestions to
moxie@thoughtcrime.org 
